Thanks to all the reviewers!

#1 1AC,R2,R3 What does the UI look like? Is it all automatic?
Sketch&Stitch (S&S) comprises 4 software (SW) pieces: smartphone app, PC app (called 'system' on p8), embroidery SW on PC, and SW on embroidery machine (EM). Our smartphone app sends a photo to our PC app, which sends an embroidery stack to the embroidery PC app. The latter transforms the stack into stitch patterns. Our PC app sends the patterns to the EM. Users take the photo by pressing a wireless button (Fig7d); our PC app lets them tune color detection. Optionally, they can scale, rotate, or delete (see p10) patterns using the EM's touchscreen before stitching. Users don't interact with the embroidery PC app, so they can focus on the fabric. Will replace Figure 8 with UIs and system architecture diagram.

#2 1AC,R1,R3 How well do produced sensors and e-textiles work?
They work as described. Will add (R1): The resistive button supports only 2 states; piezoresistive thread could enable more. The capacitive slider and touchpad require at least a 1cm grid for low noise, enabling reliable interpolation of 2 additional steps between grid points. Will also add to Video Fig. Issues affecting functionality are merged traces and gaps in traces during CV. 2-2.5mm spacings (p9), consistent marker pressure, sufficient trace overlap, and a good camera & lighting prevent these. Users can debug these issues by examining the sketch, by verifying the circuit pattern (#1), or by stitching and debugging the pattern before adding HW. Fabric circuits can be fixed by erasing sketch lines (undo), removing stitches with a seam ripper, and incremental design. Will clarify.

#3 R1,R3 How well does sketch-to-stitch transformation work?
We compared sketched and stitched versions for 15 lines of different length, width and spacing. Only width showed visible differences. Textured fabrics cause jitter in sketched lines; S&S smoothes these, increasing line width by .5mm. Resolution: sketched lines of .3mm length, .4mm width, and .5mm spacing are detected correctly (iPhone 6s, 1m distance). Will include.

#4 1AC,R1,R2 How can embroidery stickers be used?
Users cut embroidery stickers from adhesive paper with a grid print (Fig 5a), adhere them on crossings or fabric, then connect sticker and fabric traces. Will be concise in Adding Interactivity (R2) and add a Figure of this process showing button, slider and touchpad examples. Will show 180,90,45 deg shield stickers used on various crossing types in Fig 5.

#5 1AC,R1 S&S programming API?
The focus of S&S is to contribute a new way to do the (most laborious) HW steps when designing e-textiles. For the SW side (eg MCU programming) we rely on existing tools. Our examples used the Arduino IDE. More beginner-friendly tools exist, eg Scratch (DOI 10.1145/1592761.1592779). Will clarify.

#6 1AC,R1,R2 Why not more users? Research methodology?
Indeed, a user study is required to generalize, but our aim was to first reveal challenges and opportunities. We consider S&S an artifact contribution and used demonstrators, as in [35,45], to show what it enables. To this end, we invited an artist to work with the system for 3 days, since S&S was not designed with walk-up use in mind.
Research methodology: We observed and documented the user's process and artifacts, conducted 2 unstructured interviews (day 1,2), a structured interview (day 3), and finally a retrospective study with the artist and researcher reviewing photos of her progress.

#7 1AC,R1,R2 Advantages of sketching on fabric?
By 'doodling' we meant scribbling initial ideas prior to sketching (R1). Sketching on fabric offers the unique benefit of visualizing a design in context before stitching it. Eg, the artist wore her Wearable Mandala shirt several times to assess how the design looked and constrained her. She found sketching on textures like leather inspired right angles and straight lines, while cotton inspired curved lines. Drawing on fabric provides awareness of scale and location. Will discuss.

#8 R2 Pros and cons of S&S workflow? 
Main pro of S&S compared to manual methods is efficiency. The artist's longest project was the Wearable Mandala: 4 hours (30 min stitching, ~15 min replacing 10 stickers using Z-tape, the remaining time was spent sketching, planning, and testing the circuit); see p10 & #7. Sketching the circuit took most of her time, especially its integration into the art contours. After initial prototypes, she avoided circuit pitfalls (#2). Will update.

#9 R3 Early feedback
We initially interviewed 2 textile artists who motivated the concept of sketching on fabric using fabric markers. Will add insights.

#10 R2 Target users
S&S currently expects basic electronics understanding.
Training on S&S and EM takes 20min.

1AC,R2,R1 Other changes
Will replace Fig 1 or 7 with Fig of embroidery stack, and transform Figure 9 & 10 to graphs.
Thanks for the pointers: Will add Peiris’ toolkit for animating sketches and rename Circuit Stickers.