------------------------ Submission 1538, Review 4 ------------------------

Title: Sketch&Stitch: Interactive Embroidery for E-textiles

Reviewer:           AC

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Recommendation

    . . . Between neutral and possibly accept; 3.5

Award Nomination

   If accepted, this paper would not be among the top 20% of papers presented at CHI

1AC: The Meta-Review

   This paper presents an interactive embroidery system. The paper has a
   detailed description of different components of the system and
   well-written.

   In terms of contribution, I agree with the R3 that the overall system
   integration and approach has the potential. There are several issues that
   reviewers, especially R2, has pointed out and I encourage authors to
   address them in the rebuttal


   Missing Technical Details:
   As R2 suggested, “there is almost no description about the software
   interface or much about how the user can interact with it” What’s the
   User Interface look like? How do the users interact with it? Given the
   very detailed description of rest of the components, I would expect this
   details or hear why those were omitted.

   Evidence of the system is actually functional:
   In addition, video or the images in the paper doesn’t show the state of
   the textiles produced by the artist. There were no images of embroidery
   stickers or the real usage of them shown (R2). I wonder if the system is
   able to create e-textile that is functional. If not, what are the
   limitations? If it works, as R3 indicated, can you provide examples of
   how the system realized the various stitching patterns and techniques
   discussed in the paper.

   The space for this opens up if you remove Figure 7 (contains the same
   info in Figure 1) and merging the important points of ‘Adding
   Interactivity’ section with ‘Example Applications’ (R2).

   User Interaction:
   The paper has great details on attaching various electronic components
   and creating inputs. However, no details on how an artist/non-expert user
   would program the behavior he/she wanted. Do the authors offer some sort
   of protocol, API, etc.? (R1).

   Validation with  1 user:
   This an interaction technique. So naturally one would expect a user study
   with multiple users. Why was this not done? Even the single user who
   tested the system claimed, “fabric is not a good medium for
   doodling”. As R1 indicated “it raises the question if sketch input on
   the output fabric is ultimately the right technique”. How do you draw
   generalizable conclusions with just one user? This is not even mentioned
   as major point in the limitations section, which I think authors should
   have done (at least)


   Minor
   Consider changing the term ‘Circuit Stickers’ (R2).
   Relevant reference: https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2686612.2686691


   Overall, I am on the fence leaning towards the positive side. However,
   the final verdict depends on how authors react to the above rebuttal
   points.

Rebuttal response

   (blank)


------------------------ Submission 1538, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: Sketch&Stitch: Interactive Embroidery for E-textiles


Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

Recommendation

    . . . Between neutral and possibly accept; 3.5

Award Nomination

   If accepted, this paper would not be among the top 20% of papers presented at CHI

Review

   The authors present a new interactive embroidery system to create
   e-textiles that integrate electronic components and circuits. The users
   sketch their intended design for the stitches and use stickers as
   placeholders for the electronics, which are attached after embroidery.

   I really enjoyed reading the paper, since it is well-structured and very
   clearly presented. I found the concept to be convincing, because it hides
   the complexity of design tools from users and make the design process of
   e-textiles easy and natural. Beyond, I think that the paper fits well
   with the current DIY and maker spirit, which we currently experience in
   HCI community. The concept itself is very well thought out, however I
   missed some details on the technical implementation as well as how users
   could be instructed with rules and validity checks to avoid for example
   shorting or damage of the hardware.

   I am not an expert in that field, but I found the related work section
   very well done, since it provides a good overview and explanation of
   fabrication of e-textiles.

   The concept with the component stickers during the sketching phase to
   maintain size and fit connections is smart. Also the idea with the
   embroidery patterns as placeholder for complex patterns is convincing.
   However, I would like to see the different input patterns, such as touch
   slider, resistive button, or touch matrix, to be discussed (and
   visualized) in the paper in more detail. I would be further interested
   e.g. how the output of the 4x4 touch matrix performs in terms of
   resolution and interpolation, or learn about the pressure range of the
   resistive button.

   The authors pointed out, that a system for validating the sketched input
   would be needed but referred to it as future work. Indeed I think that
   such a system would be crucial for such a concept. Especially users that
   are not so experienced with circuit design will need some guidance and
   instructions to stick to the rules. For instance I could imagine that the
   smartphone (or external camera) constantly tracks the sketch and provides
   some hints and suggestions if there is any problem with the user’s
   sketch. I would be interested if the authors could provide some more
   ideas on that perspective.

   For the implementation section, I would expect some more technical depth.
   It would be great to visualize/explain the different steps of the
   embroidery stack in a figure. Beyond, I completely missed a discussion
   how the artists then can use the e.g. input signals captured with the
   LilyPad. Do the authors offer some sort of protocol, API, etc.? I was
   also wondering how the authors implemented the readout of the input, such
   as input from the touchpad, touch sliders and buttons.

   Although the authors conducted an expert study with a single artist, it
   would have been better to capture multiple qualitative opinions to get a
   more versatile view onto the concept. That the artist described the
   fabric to not be a good medium for doodling is a bit alarming, because it
   raises the question if sketch input on the output fabric is ultimately
   the right technique for crafting e-textiles (btw: how well does the
   wiping of strokes of the textile marker with the damp cloth works; are
   they easy and clean to wipe?). Beyond, some quantitative evaluation about
   the accuracy of the transformation of sketches to machine patterns would
   be interesting. Or some performance measures for the input as previously
   mentioned. Nevertheless, I found it nice that the application examples
   were actually created by a "user" of the system.

   Summarizing, as I pretty much liked the concept I am positive about the
   paper. However, I also think that some sections of the paper offer room
   for improvement. Thus, I would encourage the authors to address my
   questions and concerns in their rebuttal.

Rebuttal response

   (blank)


------------------------ Submission 1538, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: Sketch&Stitch: Interactive Embroidery for E-textiles


Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Recommendation

    . . . Between possibly reject and neutral; 2.5

Award Nomination

   If accepted, this paper would not be among the top 20% of papers presented at CHI

Review

   This paper presents Sketch&Stitch, and interactive embroidery tool for
   E-Textiles. Here, the authors describe an easier way for makers to
   produce e-textiles with help of few steps such as drawing the
   circuit/design on the textile, taking a snapshot of the design for
   processing the embroidery details, using an embroidery machine to
   stitching the design with conductive and non conductive layers and
   attaching the electronic components.

   Overall, the idea behind this work is very interesting and suitable for
   the CHI community and could greatly benefit the maker community. The
   authors display the use of a creative blend of existing technologies such
   as image processing to digital embroidery machines to implement their
   methodology. In addition, the related works adequately covers the context
   of the work.

   However, at this moment I am unable to decide if the paper is at an
   acceptable level for CHI. There are few issues/points I came came across
   while reading through which I hope the authors can address in their
   rebuttal.

   1) Initially, I was really confused by the term "Circuit Stickers". There
   is a project under the same name, with a similar intention (adhesive
   circuits), that recently gained popularity in the maker/wearable-tech
   communities. Although this is not a deal breaker, I hope the authors can
   use a different name for their "circuit stickers" to avoid any confusion.
   https://www.crowdsupply.com/chibitronics/circuit-stickers
   http://technolojie.com/circuit-stickers/

   2) Mostly, I felt that the paper was NOT well organized. I felt that the
   authors have used an extremely descriptive way to present their
   methodologies when they could have used more images with lesser wording
   to convey the ideas better.
   - For example, the "Adding Interactivity" sub section does not add much
   contribution to the paper as it simply describes some possible solutions.
   Perhaps, these could have been described (or better yet, demonstrated)
   later in the Application Examples section.

   - Figure 1 and Figure 7 are essentially the same. The authors could have
   used just one of the Figures to discuss the Sketch&Stitch walk through.

   3) Embroidery stickers: Another main issue I found was that, there were
   no images of embroidery stickers or the real usage of them shown. This is
   an important part of this work, however, even in Figure 5(a) the
   embroidery sticker seems like a digital overlay. As this is an important
   part of the methodology, I am curious as to why there are no images or
   examples of its usage shown here. For example, image 5(a) shows a
   cross-type sticker. How would a user use it for  a different type of
   crossing of two conductive traces?

   4) Software: There is almost no description about the software interface
   or much about how the user can interact with it. The authors describe the
   software implementation, and show the transformation stages of the
   sketch. Is there a way for the user to interact with these? For them to
   confirm the design, can they zoom in, etc? How is the user prompted to go
   through the stages and make changes? In addition, Figure 8b is not very
   clear. What are those straight lines? ("the connecting lines signify the
   path between individual stitches"- does this mean this a path of the
   thread?)

   5) Technical Evaluation: I appreciate the technical evaluation that
   considers many different factors. However, I suggest the authors present
   the results in the form of a graph: for example, Trace Length vs
   Resistance for different stitch variants, etc. This way it would be
   easier for a reader to come to a conclusion about the possible
   resistances for different lengths

   6) Usability Evaluation: The usability evaluation of this work is
   presented through the designs implemented by an invited hobbyist. While I
   enjoy the designs presented by the her, I find it difficult to draw any
   proper conclusions from this study. The study does show very interesting
   and cool ideas that can are done with e-textiles. However, it does not
   highlight the advantages or the disadvantages of the proposed
   methodology. How easy was this process compared to her previous
   experience? How long did these impressive designs take for
   implementation? Is there any particular advantage or some creative
   trigger she found when using this methodology? Or how easy is it for a
   non-expert of e-textile/embroidery to adapt to this methodology?
   - In addition, discuss the target users for this methodology? While they
   could be hobbyists, should they be experienced with circuits? What kind
   of background is expected?
   - I feel the current evaluation with a single user is weak to draw out
   any proper conclusions. I hope the authors get to work with more users (a
   range of hobbyists) to get a sense of how much training is required for
   potential users, the weaknesses of the work, etc. In addition, I suggest
   the authors to conduct a proper qualitative evaluation or a structured
   interview. The current method, analysis or the objective for the work
   with the single user is not very clear.

   In general, I am really impressed by the idea of this work. However, I
   feel that the authors have missed the mark on how they have presented
   their work. Current paper has few flaws as I have pointed out earlier. I
   hope the authors can clarify the above in their rebuttal to address these
   points.

Rebuttal response

   (blank)


------------------------ Submission 1538, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: Sketch&Stitch: Interactive Embroidery for E-textiles

Reviewer:           2AC

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Recommendation

   Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper; 4.0

Award Nomination

   (blank)

Review

   The paper introduces a system that supports a new workflow for creating
   e-textiles with embroidery machines. This workflow consists of three main
   steps:

   (1) The maker uses colored sketches and stickers to describe the artwork
   and the electronic parts directly on the fabric.
   (2) The system optically recognizes the sketched patterns and stickers,
   converts them to embroidery patterns, and sends them to the machine for
   stitching.
   (3) The maker then replaces the stickers with real electronic components
   and connects them to power to finalize her creation.

   The paper is clear and well-written. It explains the different system
   components in detail. It explores solutions to a range of fabrication
   problems, e.g., how to produce reliable stitching patterns, how to
   insulate the circuit traces, how to cross conductive traces, and how to
   create sensors. It further tests the resistivity, insulation, and safe
   spacing between connective threads. Finally, it reports on the
   exploratory use of the system by an artist over three days. Although such
   an evaluation is preliminary and rather informal, I believe that it is
   valuable for this type of systems, as it allows the researchers to
   identify limitations and reflect on future extensions and improvements.

   Overall, I am positive about this paper, and I like to see it presented
   at CHI. Although the contribution of each part of this work is not
   impressive on its own (e.g., the use of stickers derives from other
   recent work [45]), their combination results in an interesting and unique
   approach that deserves publication.

   A downside of the work is the lack of early feedback from the system's
   potential users. The paper presents a new workflow without first
   discussing  current practices in designing e-textiles or traditional
   fabrics. Some earlier involvement of artists in the system's design could
   possibly help better understand (or at least more effectively describe)
   their current workflows.

   I would also expect a kind of testing of some parts of the system, as it
   is currently unclear to what extent they work. For example, it not clear
   how easy it is produce sensors and how reliable such sensors are.  It is
   also unclear how easy it is to transition from the image of the sketch to
   the digital model that is sent to the machine. Is it everything automatic
   or does it need some manual intervention? Although I understand that the
   vision component is not the paper's primary focus, it is important to get
   some feeling about the overall feasibility of the approach.

   In addition, the paper (and video) provides no discussion (or evidence)
   about the state of the textiles produced by the artist. Do they actually
   work? If they don't fully work, which are the difficulties that emerged
   during the process (e.g., no support for testing the printed circuits?)
   and breakdowns (e.g., situations where stitching  did not work as
   expected). If they do, I would expect some interesting examples of how
   the system realized the various stitching patterns and techniques
   discussed in the paper. I will ask the authors to address this point in
   their rebuttal.

   Finally, I was bit disappointed about the lack of interactivity in the
   system so I am glad that the authors consider this direction as future
   work. Allowing users to test and correct designed circuits, explore
   alternative designs, and go back to the history are all promising
   extensions.

Rebuttal response

   (blank)